docs/07-_Numbers.md, before:

# Numbers

Palindrom is a JavaScript library that binds client-side view-models to server side view-models. While Palindrom is a JavaScript library, the server may or may not be built with JavaScript. And this can result in some differences in data types, particularly in numbers. To quote MDN's [Number](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number) page:

```js
var biggestInt = 9007199254740991;
var smallestInt = -9007199254740991
```

> When parsing data that has been serialized to JSON, integer values falling out of this range can be expected to become corrupted when JSON parser coerces them to Number type. Using String instead is a possible workaround.

It is not a limitation of JSON, but of JavaScript, that all numbers are stored in memory as float64 (equivalent to `Double` in C#). This means that numbers larger than +/- **9007199254740991** cannot be used in JavaScript without losing precision. 

#### Numbers validation

To ensure the validity of your data all the time, Palindrom validates each number it comes across and throws an error when it encounters an out-of-range value, from both endpoints:

- **From Server's endpoint**: It calls `onIncomingPatchValidationError` with a `RangeError` with an elaborate message.
- **From Client's endpoint**: It calls `onOutgoingPatchValidationError` with a `RangeError` with an elaborate message.

For more information about these callbacks, please refer to Section 2.

Commit message:

Add a note in README about non validating and ignoring local changes above `MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`
https://github.com/Palindrom/Palindrom/issues/271

docs/07-_Numbers.md, after:

# Numbers

Palindrom is a JavaScript library that binds client-side view-models to server side view-models. While Palindrom is a JavaScript library, the server may or may not be built with JavaScript. And this can result in some differences in data types, particularly in numbers. To quote MDN's [Number](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number) page:

```js
var biggestInt = 9007199254740991;
var smallestInt = -9007199254740991
```

> When parsing data that has been serialized to JSON, integer values falling out of this range can be expected to become corrupted when JSON parser coerces them to Number type. Using String instead is a possible workaround.

It is not a limitation of JSON, but of JavaScript, that all numbers are stored in memory as float64 (equivalent to `Double` in C#). This means that numbers larger than +/- **9007199254740991** cannot be used in JavaScript without losing precision. 

#### Numbers validation

To ensure the validity of your data, Palindrom validates each number it receives from the remote and throws an error when it encounters an out-of-range value. It calls `onIncomingPatchValidationError` with a `RangeError` with an elaborate message.

For more information about this callback, please refer to Section 2.

> Please note, that Palindrom does not validate outgoing patches. Palindrom operates in JavaScript environment, if you are using numbers above `MAX_SAFE_INTEGER` in JavaScript you should already expect the unexpected. Also, the `JSONPatcherProxy` used by Palindrom to observe changes in your object may not observe the changes that happen above `MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`, see [limitations section in JSONPatcherProxy README](https://github.com/Palindrom/JSONPatcherProxy#limitations)
